So we've learned that react takes care of Dom changes for us using something called virtual Dawn.
We learn that we build the Web sites with components.
And this idea of you need directional data flow where data only flows one way so that it's easier to
debug our code.
Then the final thing that really made react stand out is this idea of hey I'm just the UI.
The rest is up to you.
What do you mean by this well.
Remember how with angular it came with all these things built in that is angular J.S..
It was a framework and a framework is kind of like a whole kitchen.
It gives the developers all the tools necessary to build an application.
So if you're a cook in a kitchen while you get the oven you get the nice you get the drawers you get
the pots and pans.
You have the stove you have everything for you.
And this is how you cook or this is how you build a Web site.
It's very opinionated.
On the other hand react said Hey I only care about this whole idea of components and virtual DOM and
I only am going to work with the view the user interface everything else that you need while you can
just use other modules other libraries and mix and match and have whatever you want customized to your
need.
So it was a library a UI library which is not like a kitchen.
It's more like let's say the stove they gave you the stove to cook your soup on but everything else
like knife cutting board spoon.
Well you can pick whichever one you want.
It's up to you what you use to build that soup.
All we give you is this oven and the key idea was that because it was so small you can learn once and
write anywhere.
What does that mean.
Well react doesn't make assumptions about what technology stack you use all we give you is hey here
is this idea of components of a blueprint that we can use a massive javascript object to make changes.
And here's also a robot that will interact with the Dom and makes changes for you but because of this
we actually are able because it only focuses with the UI we're actually able to move react to other
places other than well let's say the Web for example we now can have different robots that interact
with different views and all they need is this main react library or blueprint of how to well look at
a javascript object and say hey change this UI.
So now you could have things like react native and this little robot can look at this blueprint and
say change the view in a Iow app an Android app.
And although it might not know anything about the DOM it only needs to know about views in a mobile
app.
You also have things like react 360 which is VR apps and again using this blueprint of react I can use
it for VR apps and this little robot or library can focus on VR.
We also have things like electron and react desktop that allows us to build desktop applications and
they interact with Windows and Mac OS and Linux operating systems.
We even have things like react to blessed that work with the terminal and the command prompt and because
of this react was able to use this concept and have developers that originally just wrote for Web sites
on the browser to now use the same idea and the same principles and the same javascript code to build
desktop applications to build VR applications to build mobile applications.
And this idea of cross platform really took off with react and you'll notice when we start building
our projects that we actually import to libraries and react the core react library which is this little
robot and the react dorm library which is this specific robot that only knows how to interact with the
dorm or the web browser.